1. Why are you interested in this Master's programme?
2. Which of the five specializations of the Master's programme would you like to choose? Explain your choice! You can choose one of the five:
2.1. High-Performance Computing;
2.2. Programming Languages;
2.3. Natural Language Processing;
2.4. Cryptography and Theoretical Informatics;
2.5. Data Mining.
3. What programming languages and tools are you most familiar with, and how do you assess your level of mastery in these programming languages and tools?
4. What is/are the most complex programming, engineering or scientific task(s) or project(s) that you have completed? If the output of these task(s)/project(s) is available as open-source software (or it can be made open-source), please provide the link(s) to the public code repository.
5. How do you assess your skills and capability in the fields of algorithms and mathematics in general? In addition - especially considered for specialization 2.4: would you be interested in and do you have experience in analysing the efficiency and correctness of different algorithms, constructing new algorithms, implementing non-trivial algorithms?
6. In which field would you like to write your Master's thesis? Explain your choice!
7. How do you plan to implement the skills to be gained from the programme in your future career?

Dear Sir/Madam,

With this letter, I would like to express my interest in studying Master's in Computer Science at the University of Tartu.

My journey in this area of computing started with the courses Introduction to Computer System and Structured Programming Language where I wrote my first "hello world" code in C. It was my first taste of success in practical programming. However, an aspiration for higher study and successful career has persisted in my mind from a very young age. When I was eleven, my elder brother brought a computer into home. So from very young age I had a chance to get myself acquainted with computer. As an eleven years old boy, I was fascinated with computers because of video games. But one question popped up in my mind over and over: how could I control elements on the monitor by pressing the keyboard or clicking the mouse? My elder brother was studying Civil Engineering at that time. When I asked him this question, he answered, "You have to study computer science to understand this". That simple statement amplified my fascination for computers into a passion which exists to this day.

After completing my higher secondary education, I enrolled myself in the B.Sc programme for Computer Science and Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology(BUET). My attraction towards computers was not the only driving force, interest towards Mathematics also pushed me to choose Computer Science. I studied  elementary Computer Science courses at BUET and graduated with 75% marks. Among all these, Algorithm course helped me visualize Mathematics in a simpler way. I enjoyed the subject so much that after learning each Algorithm I always tried to generate my own simpler version of that. I had become familiar with programming languages C, C++, JAVA, scripting languages like HTML, PHP, shell, and databases like Oracle and MySQL before my senior year.

During my final year of study, I, along with one of my friends, conducted a research project identifying the heterogeneous traffic behaviour of Dhaka city and developed a simulator which simulates traffic based on a given road map and vehicular behaviour. The goal of our research was to improve the present unpleasant condition of Dhaka traffic by finding the best combination of rule compliance, vehicular behaviour, and road condition. We used JAVA (with NetBeans IDE), QGis for processing Open Street Map and shape files, and SQlite. We built a Map Parser as well to improve performance. I have provided the Github link of our simulator.

Upon graduating from BUET in March 2016, I joined KONA Software Lab Limited. "Kona Money", an NFC/QR code/barcode based payment system, was my first professional project. I got a chance to master my skills in JAVA, Spring, Hibernate, Application Server,IntelliJ IDEA IDE, Gradle, and GIT by working in this project. While working in "Kona Money”, my team leader found that I was eager to apply cutting-edge technologies and optimal algorithms that could improve performance. So, he gave me a challenging task: design and develop Auth Server for the "Kona Local EMV" project. Upon successful authentication, Auth Server provides token that is used to grant access to resource servers. JAVA with Spring boot, Oauth2, jwt(JSON Web Token), zuul proxy, and oracle database are used to develop the system. Currently I am working in the "KOD" project where AngularJS, JAVA(Spring), Oracle database are being used.

I want to be an entrepreneur after gathering a few more years of industry experience and want to contribute to Estonia's growing software industry. I have found this programme best fit for my future plan as it contains diverse courses which will prepare me for the industry furthermore, to be an entrepreneur. The programme contains courses like Advanced Algorithmics, Discrete Mathematics and  Distributed Systems with which I want to hone my theoretical knowledge. Moreover, I will have a chance to brush up my professional practice by undertaking an entrepreneurial project which I found pertinent to my future plans. In my opinion, this entrepreneurial project will take me one step closer to be an entrepreneur.

I am extensively passionate about Programming Languages. I strongly believe, knowledge gained from courses like Formal Methods in Software Engineering, Concurrent Programming Languages, and Parallel Computing will guide me in designing and developing real word large scalable solutions. Moreover, this module will enhance my development skill which, I have found beneficial to my career.

An impressive thesis will be the first successful step towards my goal. Therefore, I want to do my thesis on parallel computing. All the DBMS operations, Google searches, and other millions of transactions operate within a single second in parallel. So, parallel computing is a must to design scalable system. My desire for optimization and strong algorithmic knowledge encourage me and also, I believe, make me fit to research in this field.

Apart from my academic coursework, I was captain of my faculty cricket team and a volunteer of the blood donation organization "Badhan". Moreover, I like adventurous travelling like trekking. I also participated few programming and robotics contests. My team won the 4th prize in Inter University Coding Contest, 2014. All these activities had helped me to develop my managerial skills, to become a team player, and over-all to be an hardworking and self-motivated person.

Lastly, I am confident that with my motivation and the experience I have gained from academic study and professional career, I can be a good candidate for your Master's Program with scholarship. I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and diversity of your programme, as well as the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.

Yours sincerely,
Bejon Sarker