questions
1. Describe your professional goals. How does the degree programme you are applying for will support your professional profile?
2. Why do you apply for the chosen programme? Which of the courses offered in this programme are particularly beneficial in pursuing your professional goals?
3. List previous experience (including work experience) in the fields of cyber security, digital forensics, security management or strategies or if you have any law-background or programming experience.
4. List achievements that you are very proud of. For example, this might include the development of open-source tools; published academic papers; etc.
5. Please point out 1-2 potential research questions of your interest, about which you might consider writing your final MSc thesis.

Dear Sir/Madam,

I am writing to apply for the Master's Programme in Software Engineering. I believe this degree from your esteemed institution would help me deepen my knowledge and to achieve my career goals.

My journey in this area of computing started with the Structured Programming Language course where I wrote my first "hello world" codes in C. It was my first taste of success in practical programming. However, an aspiration for higher study and successful career has persisted in my mind from a very young age. When I was 11, my elder brother brought a computer in home. So from very young age I had a chance to get myself acquainted with computer. As an 11 year old boy, I was fascinated with computers because of video games. But one question popped up in my mind over and over: how does the system work? How do I control elements on the monitor by pressing the keyboard or clicking the mouse? My elder brother was studying Civil Engineering at that time. When I asked him these questions, he answered, "You have to study computer science to understand all of this". This simple statement amplified my fascination for computers into a passion that exists to this day.

After completing my higher secondary education, I enrolled myself in the B.Sc. programme for Computer Science and Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology(BUET), the most reputed university in Bangladesh. I developed a keener interest in Computer Science there and graduated with 75% marks. During my B.Sc. studies, I studied  elementary Computer Science courses which, I believe, have helped me to build a strong foundation for higher studies and a career in Software Engineering. Namely- Programming Languages, Data Structures, Digital Logic Design, Algorithms, Data Communication, Computer Networks, Computer Architecture, Operating System and Database have been my strengths.

Upon graduating from BUET in March 2016, I was offered positions at KONA Software Lab Limited, REVE Systems, and Therap(BD) Ltd. I joined KONA Software Lab Limited as a junior engineer. We are a Smart Card manufacturer and payment solution provider. My job started with a two month training period where I learned the basics of CSCIP/Payments, Spring framework, ISO 8583, Transaction Management System(TMS). After successfully completing training, I was assigned to the "Kona Money" project. "Kona Money" is an NFC/QR code/barcode based payment system developed for South Korea. While working in "Kona Money", my team leader found that I was eager to apply cutting-edge technology. So he gave me a challenging task: to design and develop "Auth Server" for the Kona Local EMV project. "Auth Server" is a server that authenticates users and provides token upon successful authentication. The provided token is used to grant access to resource servers.

During my undergraduate study, I was involved in various extracurricular activities. I was captain of my faculty cricket team and a volunteer of the blood donation organization "Badhan". Moreover, I like adventurous travelling like trekking. I also participated numerous programming contests. My team won the 4th prize in Inter University Coding Contest, 2014.

I have been working as a developer for almost a year. I want to be an entrepreneur after gathering a few more years of industry experience by working in a multinational software company. An immediate step towards my goal would be to pursue a Masters Degree in Software Engineering to enhance and sharpen my Software Engineering Knowledge. The master's programme contains courses like Secure Programming Techniques, Advanced Programming and Agile Software Development with which I want to hone my development skills. Moreover, I will have a chance to sharpen my professional practice by undertaking an entrepreneurial project and researching a practical software engineering problem which I found pertinent to my future plans. From my undergraduate days, I have always been interested in enterprise software and my short career is full of developing enterprise software. I want to learn more about enterprise systems and business analyses, and I want to be an international expert in enterprise systems.

Lastly, I am convinced that with my motivation and the experience I have gained from academic study and professional career, I can be a good candidate for your Master's Program with scholarship. I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and diversity of your programme, as well as the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.

Yours sincerely,
Bejon Sarker