I am James Smith, the 3rd year student of XXXX University of Power Engineering and Telecommunications.

I have always been thinking about my future, building a career, becoming a successful person and generally finding my own path in the life.

Almost all my family including my uncles, aunts and cousins have their jobs which somehow connected to the field of technology. I have grown among intelligent people and it had great influence on the development of my personality so since early childhood I have learnt the importance of education.

My school teachers always noted that I had good abilities in such subjects as mathematics and physics. This increased my interest in exact sciences, and I decided to connect my future career with technological area of activity, wishing to gain success in the future. And if I become successful I will pay back my parents for their warmth and loving tender, as they have been those who have been supporting me throughout my life.

For that reason I constructed a plan for achieving this long-term aim. By the plan I accomplished some small objectives: graduated from school in the number of the best students and won a scholarship to study in XXXX University of Power Engineering and Telecommunications. This year I am going to graduate from the university, and plan to enter one of the best universities of the world for my Masters’ degree. As it was before I started to find one with an opportunity to win a scholarship. I spent much time searching, and at last I chose the XXXX University among other universities of the Netherlands.

The first acquaintance with your university began from collecting particular information about it. From the data I had found I managed to make some basic picture explaining why I chose it.

XXXX University is the biggest innovative centre which takes active part in the field of fundamental and applied sciences. Furthermore, the research investigations of students and scientists make a great contribution to the development of high technologies in and outside the Netherlands. In addition to investigative work the university keeps on stimulating entrepreneurial abilities in its students. It favoured the establishment of more than 600 thousand industrial companies which successively function on the basis of mutually beneficial collaboration with students and research personnel of XXXX University. Furthermore, I was astonished reading about implementations which are conducted there. For example, the development of virtual satellite dish or microchip with a solar cell which does not need batteries. All the articles about achievements of the university let me conclude that XXXX University is the most suitable institution to realize my potential.

As far as my pertinent work experience is concerned, I would like to mention that last summer I was undergoing training in local telecommunication company for 5 weeks. This company devotes itself to providing wireless broadband Internet access to its customers. As a trainee I had many duties starting from reconfiguring equipment and finishing by arriving to a certain client to set up a network. During the training I managed to acquire some specific skills, for example, how to organize conduit in different kinds of buildings or how exactly a cable laying is implemented. Likewise, I got to know the structure of telecommunication agency. In addition, I learnt the principles of team work and improved my communicative abilities. As a result, after completion of the training I was given a qualification of assistant engineer.

As regards my interests, I am glad to say that I am not a person who is only engaged in studies. I have dozens of activities which I like to do. Generally, I would like to note that I have always kept healthy lifestyle. I was taught that it is much better to struggle with your sicknesses by developing your health rather than taking drugs infinitely. All these clearly define my high interest in keeping healthy lifestyle that is reflected in my big love of sport. For instance, I am a real football fan which means that I enjoy playing and watching it. Thus I always try to find some time to go out and play such a wonderful game with my friends. What is more, the fact that football is the most famous sport in the Netherlands so there are plenty of professional football clubs which are recognized worldwide is another plus for entering your university. In addition, I also like such kinds of sports that upgrade strength, stamina, reaction and flexibility. That is why the list of my favourite sports is very wide including not only football, but also basketball, swimming, long-distance jogging, sprint, table tennis and recently I have found myself in martial arts especially Boxing and different kinds of wrestling. Finally, I cannot forget that reading books is another passion of mine. Thus, most of all I prefer science fiction, fantasy and detective novels as my favourite genres.

With respect to my future career, as I mentioned before the fact, that XXXX University links its activity with investigative work and at the same time develop entrepreneurial skills of its students, is a fundamental reason of why I desire to study exactly here. The question is that our nation is lack of highly qualified specialists in the field of telecommunication. What is more, as user I am not satisfied with the level of provision of different telecommunication services that are also very expensive and I am sure that I am not the only one who supposes so. I believe that our country has much more potential; therefore, as a true patriot, I wish to contribute to the development of the national telecommunication. In other words, if I gain the Masters’ degree in your university then I am going to return back to my homeland to make efforts to establish my own telecommunication company for the purpose of providing telecommunication of a high quality at a reasonable price. To implement such goal I need to improve my leadership qualities and acquire special knowledge in chosen field of education, which will be possible if I join XXXX University.

In conclusion, I would like to say that if I become a student of your university, I promise to be a worthy member of the team.

Thank you very much for considering my application. I look forward to your positive response.

Yours sincerely,

James Smith