Dear Sir/Madam,

With this letter, I would like to express my interest in studying Master's in e-Governance Technologies at the Tallinn University of Technology.

Many governments are using information and communication technology(ICT), to provide services between government agencies , citizens, and other nongovernmental agencies. The adoption and use of the e-government strategy can provide significant benefits for government as this will reduce cost, improve service quality, and provide transparency. I can explain this with a case study: one local body in my city collects Tax from 1 Million customer through manual mode and maintains individual registers for them. Enormous Manpower is required and the chances of data errors and funds mismanagement are vast. Now if this was transformed to a Web Based application with online payment mode and Citizen Portal, would improve the efficiency as well as transparency. Futhermore, I believe, there are lot more to improve in the field of governance by digitization, specially for countries like Bangladesh. This realization motivates me to study e-Governance Technologies and be one of the first few people who worked for making Bangladesh a tech-savvy nation.

It will be a great experience if I get a chance to study this programme in Estonia which has embraced e-Governance before all other nations. According to the Japan Times "Japan has launched a digital identification program called MyNumber, which helps residents access and manage a range of government services online, from social security to income taxes". I believe, Japan has taken Estonia as an example which is the vanguard of all states in using ICT in public sector and governance. "Estonia’s success in converting their public services online is first and foremost based on the widespread use of electronic identification cards" according to June 2015, World bank report. This Baltic nation has developed X-Road to ensure secure communication between scattered government databases and institutions that use different procedures and technologies to deliver their services. Through e-ID and X-Road plateform Estonia offers numerous convenient online services to their citizens including  electronic tax filing, online medical prescriptions and, ultimately, internet voting. Residents who use the system save time and money and it also provides direct communication between government and citizens which ensures transparency. The World Bank quantified the savings more precisely: the annual of human-to-human queries was approximately 113 million in 2014. If every query saved 15 minutes a total of 2.8 million hours was saved which is equivalent to 3225 people working continuously 24/7 for one year. From all these data it is clearly visible that government saving huge resources as well as citizens are using e-government services more conveniently.

After completing my higher secondary education, I enrolled myself in the B.Sc. programme for Computer Science and Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology(BUET). I developed a keener interest in Computer Science there and graduated with 75% marks. Upon graduating from BUET in March 2016, I joined KONA Software Lab Limited, a banking solutions provider for public banks. I joined there because of my interest towards developing technical solutions for public sector. "Kona Money", an NFC/QR code/barcode based payment system, is my first professional project. This Host Card Emulation(HCE) mobile application is an prepaid payement system which is used as alternative to physical debit/credit card. I have also worked in "Kona Local EMV" and "Kona Operation Desk" projects. With these experiences, I am very interested researching in m-Government more specifically in m-ID. Estonia has already developed Mobile-ID. According to e-estonia.com "the system is based on a specialized Mobile-ID SIM card which the customer must request from the mobile phone operator". I want to conduct a research project on Mobile-ID based on HCE technology where user credentials will be stored in cloud server rather than in Secure element or SIM card. This will help getting rid of third party like mobile phone operator and help citizens to use e-government services more conveniently. The goal of my research to develop on single application by which all services like paying tax, internet voting can be done.

Lastly, I believe this degree from your esteemed institution would help me deepen my knowledge in the field of e-Governance. Moreover, I am confident that with my motivation and the experience, I can be a good candidate for your Master's Program with scholarship. I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and diversity of your programme, as well as the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.

Yours sincerely,
Bejon Sarker