First of all, let me introduce myself, I am Bejon Sarker from Bangladesh. I have graduated from Bangladesh University of Engineering(BUET) in Computer Science and Engineering at 5 March 2016 and recently I have been working at KONA Software Lab Limited as junior engineer which is a smart card manufacturer and payment solutions provider.

When I was at the age of 11, my elder brother brought a computer into home. So from very young age I had a chance to get myself acquainted with computer. It's very obvious that a 11 years old boy will use computer only for playing video games. And there was no difference for me too but when I sat in front of computer, one question raised in my mind each and every time that is how the whole system works? How I control elements by pressing keyboard or clicking mouse? One day I asked the question to my elder brother who was studying Civil Engineering at the same university I am graduated from. My brother answered "You have to be a computer engineer to understand all this". From that moment I set my goal that I will be a computer engineer.

After completing my higher secondary school I appeared on the admission exams of the universities and selected in the most reputed public university in the country.I could have choose any department when I had to fill up the Admission form of the university I selected Computer Science And Engineering as my first choose. My passion for computer from young age is of course the major factor for my selection also my research about the local and global job market also accelerated my decision.

The undergraduate program in Computer Science and Engineering formed the basis of my perseverance towards achieving an in-depth knowledge in the field of computer Science. As a part of my degree course I studied various subjects relating to diverse aspects of Computer Science which includes Introduction to Computer System, Discrete Mathematics, Structured, Programming Language(C), Object Oriented Programming Language(C++, JAVA), Data Structures, Digital Logic Design, Algorithms, Digital Electronics and Pulse Techniques, Theory of Computation, Assembly Language Programming, Database, Computer Architecture, Software Engineering and Information System Design, Compiler, Data Communication, Mathematical Analysis for, Computer Science, Operating System, Microprocessors and Microcontrollers, Numerical Methods, Computer Networks, Software Development, Artificial Intelligence, Digital System Design, Simulation and Modeling, Computer Graphics, Algorithm Engineering, Computational Geometry.

While offering both depth and breadth across this field, these courses put into perspective the importance and relevance of Computer Science and Engineering and the application of its fundamentals to the problems faced by the real world. So, I can realize that learning and developing my knowledge of Computer Science. I will have a great contribution to the society since my country begins to transfer manual system to computerize.
I am much eager to adopt and know new technologies. Now I want to take my knowledge into next level and I am really enthusiastic to attend a Master of Computer Science in {university name} in order to...