Dear sir /Madam,

First of all, let me introduce myself, I am [name] and recently I have been working in Ethiotelecom as a Network Engineer. I have attended my B.Sc degree in Computer Science and Engineering (Software Engineering Stream) from [university name].

The undergraduate curriculum in Computer Science and Engineering at institute of technology, [university name], Ethiopia introduces me to a wide variety of engineering subjects. Various courses like Artificial Intelligence (Robotics), Programming Languages, Electronics I&II, Software Engineering, System Programming, Micro Processor, Interfacing & Assembly, Algorithm Analysis and Design, Digital Signal Processing, Network and System Security, Digital system, Algorithm analysis and design, Computer graphics and multimedia, Computer Simulation and Modeling provided me with a strong footing in the theoretical concept of Computer Science and Engineering.

While offering both depth and breadth across this field, these courses put into perspective the importance and relevance of Computer Science and Engineering and the application of its fundamentals to the problems faced by the real world. So, I can realize that learning and developing my knowledge of Computer Science. I will have a great contribution to the society since our country begins to transfer manual system to computerize.

motivation letter for computer science degree.jpg

I am much eager to adopt and know new technologies. I am really enthusiastic to attend a Master of Computer Science in order to understand different Computer Science Concepts, because every industry needs the concept of Computer Science. Good reputation of high quality education standards, an extremely distinguished faculty members and research facilities are the factors which have motivated me to choose for my M.Sc. studies the [university name].

Moreover, I feel I am responsible for making a big move in this field and this scholarship will give me a big chance to be one day someone who is remembered for his innovations. I think it is our duty as people sharing life in this world to make our future better because the future is not only ours. Our grandchildren should be proud of us one day when they look back and find how hard we worked to make the world a better place. I believe my qualification and your needs would be an excellent fit. I will be happy to provide any further information or documents if required. I look forward to your positive response. Thank you for your time and consideration.

Yours faithfully.