Dear Sir/Madam,

I am writing to apply for the Master's Programme in Software Engineering. I believe this degree from your esteemed institution would help me deepen my knowledge and help me to achieve my career goals.

My journey in this area of computing started with the courses Introduction to Computer System and Structured Programming Language where I wrote my first "hello world" codes in C. It was my first taste of success in practical programming. However, an aspiration for higher study and successful career has persisted in my mind from a very young age. When I was 11, my elder brother brought a computer into home. So from very young age I had a chance to get myself acquainted with computer. As an 11 year old boy, I was fascinated with computers because of video games. But one question popped up in my mind over and over: how does the system work? How do I control elements on the monitor by pressing the keyboard or clicking the mouse? My elder brother was studying Civil Engineering at the time. When I asked him these questions, he answered, "You have to study computer science to understand all of this". This simple statement amplified my fascination for computers into a passion that exists to this day.

After completing my higher secondary education, I enrolled myself in the B.Sc. programme for Computer Science and Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology(BUET), the most reputed university in Bangladesh. I developed a keener interest in Computer Science there and graduated with 75% marks. During my B.Sc. studies, I studied  elementary Computer Science courses which, I believe, have helped me to build a strong foundation for higher studies and a career in Software Engineering. Namely- Programming Languages, Data Structures, Digital Logic Design, Algorithms, Software engineering, Computer Networks, Computer Architecture, Operating System and Database have been my strengths.

I had already become familiar with programming languages C, C++, JAVA, scripting languages like HTML, PHP, shell script, and databases like Oracle and MySQL before my senior year. During my final year of study, I, along with one of my friends, conducted a research project identifying the heterogeneous traffic behaviour of Dhaka city and developed a simulator which simulates traffic based on a given road map and past behaviour. The goal of our research was to improve the present unpleasant condition of Dhaka traffic while finding the best combination of rule compliance, vehicular behaviour, and road condition. We used JAVA (with NetBeans IDE), QGis for processing Open Street Map and shape files, and SQlite. We built a Map Parser as well to improve performance which process the map(OSM, shape file) into a compressed file that is taken as input for the simulator. After each simulation, the simulator shows vehicle count and vehicle speed for each road in graph. I have provided the Github link of our simulator.

Upon graduating from BUET in March 2016, I was offered positions at KONA Software Lab Limited, REVE Systems, and Therap(BD) Ltd. I joined KONA Software Lab Limited as a junior engineer. We are a Smart Card manufacturer and payment solution provider. My job started with a two month training period where I learned the basics of CSCIP/Payments, Spring framework, hibernate, Application Server, GIT, and software development methodologies like waterfall model, scrum and agile process. After successfully completing training, I was assigned to the "Kona Money" project. "Kona Money" is an NFC/QR code/barcode based payment system developed for South Korea. While working in "Kona Money”, my team leader found that I was eager to apply cutting-edge technology. So he gave me a challenging task: to design and develop Authentication Server for the Kona Local EMV project. Authentication Server is a server that authenticates users and provides token upon successful authentication. The provided token is used to grant access to other servers. I have used JAVA with Spring boot, Oauth2, jwt(JSON Web Token), zuul proxy, IntelliJ IDEA IDE, and Gradle to develop the system. Currently I am Working on the "KOD" project where we use AngularJS with JAVA(Spring).

During my undergraduate study, I was involved in various extracurricular activities. I was captain of my faculty cricket team and a volunteer of the blood donation organization "Badhan". Moreover, I like adventurous travelling like trekking. Being the faculty captain and a member of "Badhan", I had developed managerial skills and had become a successful team member. From advantageous travelling, I learned how to focus on my goals and work hard to achieve the goal. I found this activities highly beneficial for successfully working in software industry because collaboration between team members and being focused on same goal is very important to deliver a sound product. I also participated numerous programming contests. My team won the 4th prize in Inter University Coding Contest, 2014.

I have been working as a developer for almost a year. I want to be an entrepreneur after gathering a few more years of industry experience by working in a multinational software company. An immediate step towards my goal would be to pursue a Masters Degree in Software Engineering to enhance and sharpen my Software Engineering Knowledge. I came to know about University of Tartu's masters programme in Software Engineering while I was searching the Internet to find programmes suited to my career needs. The programme contains courses like Secure Programming Techniques, Advanced Programming and Agile Software Development with which I want to hone my development skills. Moreover, I will have a chance to sharpen my professional practice by undertaking an entrepreneurial project and researching a practical software engineering problem which I found pertinent to my future plans. From my undergraduate days, I have always been interested in enterprise software and my short career is full of developing enterprise software. I want to learn more about enterprise systems and business analyses, and I want to be an international expert in enterprise systems.

Lastly, I am convinced that with my motivation and the experience I have gained from academic study and professional career, I can be a good candidate for your Master's Program with scholarship. I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and diversity of your programme, as well as the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.

Yours sincerely,
Bejon Sarker