Structure
#introduction
#Why are you interested in this Software Engineering Master's programme?
#Which of the two specializations of this Master's programme (enterprise software or embedded software) 
would you like to choose and why?
#What technical and non-technical skills do you have that prepare you well for the Software Engineering Master's programme? 
When describing your technical skills, please indicate what programming languages and development tools you are most familiar with,
and how you assess your level of mastery of these programming languages and development tools? 
When describing your non-technical skills, explain why you think these skills are important for successfully working
in the software industry.
#What is/are the most complex software engineering task(s) or project(s) that you have completed? 
If the output of these task(s)/project(s) are open-source or can be made open-source, please provide the link(s) to 
the public code repository.
#Have you participated in programming challenges or contests, informatics Olympiads, hackathons or code camps, 
or have you completed open online courses or extra-curricular courses in software engineering or related fields? 
If so, please describe your record of participation in such extra-curricular activities

Now Start

Dear Sir/Madam

I am writing to apply for master's programme in Software Engineering in which I am enormously interested. I believe this degree from your esteemed institution which is one of the most reputed technical universities would help me deepen my knowledge and help me to achieve my career goal.

Now-a-days imagining a world without the computer is really hard. My journey in this area of computing started with Introduction to Computer System and Structured Programming Language courses where I wrote first "hello world" code in C. 
It was my first taste of success in practical programming but aspiration of going for higher degrees and building a 
career in the same area built in my mind from very young age.

When I was at the age of 11, my elder brother brought a computer into home. So from very young age I had a chance to get myself acquainted with computer. It's very obvious that a 11 years old boy will use computer only for playing video games. And there was no difference for me too but when I sat in front of computer, one question raised in my mind each and every time that is how the whole system works? How I control elements on monitor by pressing keyboard or clicking mouse? One day I asked the question to my elder brother who was studying Civil Engineering at that time. My brother answered "You have to study computer science to understand all this". From that moment I made my mind that I will study computer science.

After completion of my higher secondary school, I enrolled for Bachelor of Science(B.Sc.) program in Computer Science and Engineering from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology(BUET),most reputed university in Bangladesh, where I developed more interest towards computer science and graduated with 75% marks. During B.Sc, I studied almost all basic computer science courses which helped me to build a strong foundation to go for higher studies and choose a career in software engineering. Specialized areas in Programming Languages, Data Structures, Digital Logic Design, Algorithms,  Software engineering, Computer Networks, Computer Architecture, Operating System and Database have been my strengths.

From my undergrade studies I had become familiar with programming languages C, C++, JAVA, scrpting languages like HTML, PHP, shell script, and databases like Oracle and MySQL. During my final year of study I along with one of my friends conducted a research identifying the heterogeneous traffic behavior of dhaka city and develop a simulator which simulates traffic based on given road map and behavior. The goal of our research was to improve the present unpleasent condition of Dhaka traffic finding best combination of traffic rule, vehicle's behavior, and roads' condition. Dhaka traffic simulator is one the most interesting projects I have worked in my undergrade study period where we used JAVA with NetBeans IDE and QGis for processing Open Street Map and shape files. To improve performance we built a Map Parser as well which process the original road map into a compressed one that is taken as input for the simulator. After each simulation the simulator shows vehicle count and vehicle speed for each road in graph. I am providing github link of our simulator.

Upon graduating from BUET at march, 2016 I was offered job with KONA Software Lab Limited, REVE Systems, and Therap(BD) Ltd. I joined KONA Software Lab Limited as junior engineer which is Smart Card manufacturer and payment solution provider. My job was started with two month's training period where I learned basics of CSCIP/Payments, Spring framework, Hibernete, Application Server, GIT, and software development methodologies like waterfall model, scrum and agile process. After successfully compilation of training I was assigned in "Kona Money" project. "Kona Money" is a NFC/QR code/barcode based payment system developed for South Korea. While working in "Kona Money" my team lead found that I was very eager to learn new technologies so he gave me a new challenging task, design and develop Authentication Server for Kona Local EMV project. Authentication Server is a server that authenticates users and provides token upon successful authentication. The provided token is used for granting access into different other servers. I have used JAVA with Spring boot, Oauth2, jwt(JSON Web Token), and zuul proxy to develop the system. Currently I am Working in Kona Operation Desk(KOD) where we use AngularJS for developing fornt end and JAVA(Spring) for back end.

During my undergrade study period I was involved in various extracurricular activities. I was captain of my faculty cricket team, a active member of voluntary blood donar's organization "Badhan". Moreover I like advantageous travelling like trekking. Being my faculty captain and a member of "Badhan", I developed my managerial skills and became a successful team member. From advantageous travelling I learned how to focus on my goal and work hard to achieve the goal. I found this activities highly beneficial for successfully working in software industry because collaboration between team members and being focused on same goal is very important to deliver a sound product.

I have been working as a developer for almost a year. I want to be an entrepreneur after gethering few more industry experiences by working another 2 more years as a developer in a multinational software company. An immediate step towards my goal would be to pursue Masters Program in Software Engineering to enhance and sharpen my Software Engineering Knowledge. I came to know about University of Tartu's masters programme in Software Engineering while I was searching the Internet to find best suited programme for my career goal. I am interested in this programme because I found perfect balance among theory, research, and industrial practices. During first year I will learn fundamental principles and techniques and acquire skills to design and develop software solutions and in the second year I will have a chance to complete my professional practice by undertaking an entrepreneurship project and to research on a practical software engineering problem.

Lastly, I am convinced that with my motivation and experience I have gained from my academic study and professional career, I can be good candidate for your master's program with scholarship. I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and the diversity of your program, as well as the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your positive reply.

Yours Sincerely
Bejon sarker