questions
1. Describe your professional goals. How does the degree programme you are applying for will support your professional profile?
2. Why do you apply for the chosen programme? Which of the courses offered in this programme are particularly beneficial in pursuing your professional goals?
3. List previous experience (including work experience) in the fields of cyber security, digital forensics, security management or strategies or if you have any law-background or programming experience.
4. List achievements that you are very proud of. For example, this might include the development of open-source tools; published academic papers; etc.
5. Please point out 1-2 potential research questions of your interest, about which you might consider writing your final MSc thesis.http://www.cyberdegrees.org/jobs/security-analyst/

I had numerous questions in mind about the security of data transporting through networks. Until 3rd year of by undergraduate study at BUET(Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology), all my questions were remained unanswered. I found my answers by studying Data Communication and Computer Networks. With these courses, I had understood layers of Networks, protocols to communicate, and  basics of network security including cryptography, symmetric-key algorithms, public-key algorithms, digital signature, management of public keys, and authentication protocols. I was so fascinated by network security that I set my mind to be a security analyst.

During my final year of study, I, along with one of my friends, conducted a research project identifying the heterogeneous traffic behaviour of Dhaka city and developed a simulator which simulates traffic based on a given road map and vehicular behaviour. The goal of our research was to improve the present unpleasant condition of Dhaka traffic by finding the best combination of rule compliance, vehicular behaviour, and road condition. It was a great achievement developing the simulator which could simulate such complex traffic containing heterogeneous vehicle and pedestrian.

After completing my B.Sc, although I had few other options, I joined KONA Software Lab Limited, a renown payment and security solution provider. Here, I was introduced with advance cryptography, PKI, White Box Cryptography, fraud detection, and Hardware Security Module in first two months. After that, I was assigned to "KONA MONEY" project, an NFC/QR code/barcode based payment system. I developed fraud detection module which detects deception in cryptogram and validates transaction. Moreover, I designed and developed auth server for "Kona Local EMV". Upon successful authentication, Auth Server provides token that is used to grant access to resource servers.

All these experiences and academic basic courses related to security have provided a solid foundation for me to pursue a Masters Degree in Cyber Security. I found Cyber Security programme at Tallinn University of Technology unique as it is taught under high-level cyber security practitioners. In my opinion, studying under security practitioners will deliver deep insight into each topic and relation between theory and practice. This will take me one step closer to be an security analyst. Moreover, the programme contains diverse courses. I found courses like Principles of Malware, Malware II, Information Systems Attacks and Defence, Simulation of Attacks and Defense, Cryptography I, and Cryptography II particularly beneficial for my future plan. These courses will polish my understanding in advance cryptography and various types of attacks and defences. Therefore, with these courses, I wish to prepare myself to contribute to Estonia's flourishing software industry.

An impressive thesis will aid me entrancing the industry. So, I am extensively interested doing my thesis in identifying risks in mobile banking and providing authentication and fraud management methods for that. The use of mobile banking is rising across the globe for it's simplicity and convenience but current mobile banking authentication is challenging. I strongly believe, my desire for optimization and practical experiences make me fit researching in this field.

Apart from my academic coursework and research activities in BUET, I was captain of my faculty cricket team and a volunteer of the blood donation organization "Badhan". All this activities had helped me to develop my managerial skills, to become a team player, and over-all to be an hardworking and self-motivated person.

Lastly, if Tallinn University of Technology accepts me as a graduate student, I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and diversity of the programme, as well as the international community of the University. 

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.