Dear Sir/Madam,

With this letter, I would like to express my interest in studying master's in Software Engineering at the University of Tartu.

My journey in this area of computing started with "Structured Programming Language" course where I wrote my first "hello world" code in C. It was my first taste of success in practical programming. However, an aspiration for higher study and successful career had persisted in my mind from a very young age. I was fascinated with computers because of video games. But one question popped up in my mind over and over: how could I control elements on the monitor by pressing the keyboard or clicking the mouse! When I asked my older brother this question, he answered, "You have to study computer science to understand this". That simple statement amplified my fascination for computers into a passion which exists to this day.

After completing my higher secondary education, I enrolled myself in the B.Sc programme in Computer Science and Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET). I developed a keener interest in Computer Science there and graduated with 75% marks. During my B.Sc. studies, I studied elementary Computer Science courses which, I believe, have helped me to build a strong foundation for higher studies and a career in Software Engineering. I had become familiar with programming languages C, C++, JAVA, assembly, scripting languages like HTML, PHP, shell, and databases like Oracle and MySQL before my senior year.

During my final year of study, I conducted a research project identifying the heterogeneous traffic behaviour of Dhaka city. I also developed a simulator, which simulates traffic based on a given roadmap and vehicular behaviour. The goal of my research was to improve the present unpleasant condition of Dhaka traffic by finding the best combination of rule compliance, vehicular behaviour, and road condition. I used JAVA (with the NetBeans IDE), QGis for processing Open Street Map and shape files, and SQLite. We developed a Map Parser as well to improve performance. It was a great accomplishment developing a simulator, which could simulate such complex traffic containing heterogeneous vehicle and pedestrian. I have provided the Github link of our simulator.

Upon graduating from BUET in March 2016, I joined KONA Software Lab Limited because of my passion for enterprise systems. "Kona Money", an NFC/QR code/barcode-based payment system, was my first professional project. I got a chance to master my skills in JAVA, Spring, Hibernate, Application Server, IntelliJ IDEA IDE, Gradle, oracle database, and GIT by working on this project. While working in "Kona Money”, my team leader found that I was eager to improve performance by applying cutting-edge technology and optimal algorithms. So he gave me a challenging task: design and develop Auth Server for the "Kona Local EMV" project. Upon successful authentication, Auth Server provides token, and Resource servers accept a request on validating the token. I have used JAVA with Spring boot, Oauth2, jwt (JSON Web Token), zuul proxy, and oracle database to develop the system. Currently, I am working on the "KOD" project. We are using AngularJS, JAVA (Spring), and Oracle database to develop it. Successfully working on such large enterprise solutions, has enhanced by confidence and fostered my attraction towards Software engineering.

Furthermore, these experiences and basic academic courses have provided me with a solid foundation to pursue a Masters Degree in Software Engineering and made me confident to follow my dream. I want to be an entrepreneur. I have found this programme best suit for my career need as it contains diverse courses to provide the perfect balance between theory and practice. The programme contains courses like Secure Programming Techniques, Advanced Programming and Agile Software Development with which I want to hone my software development skills. Moreover, I will have a chance to brush up my professional practice by undertaking an entrepreneurial project and researching a practical software engineering problem which I found pertinent to my future plan. In my opinion, this entrepreneurial project will take me one step onward to be an entrepreneur.

From my undergraduate days, I have always been interested in enterprise software and my short career is full of developing enterprise solutions. I want to learn more about enterprise systems and business analyses to be an international expert in these. So, I would like to study Enterprise Software module. I firmly believe this module will mature my knowledge in service-oriented architectures, enterprise System Integration, and business management.

Apart from my academic coursework and research activities in BUET, I was the captain of my faculty cricket team and a volunteer of "Badhan", a blood donation organisation. Besides, I like adventurous travelling like trekking. I also took part many programming and robotics contests. My team won the 4th prize in Inter University Coding Contest, 2014. All these activities had helped me to develop my managerial skills, to become a team player, and overall to be a hardworking and self-motivated person. I found these activities exceedingly beneficial for successfully working in the software industry because collaboration between team members and being focused on the same goal is very important to deliver a sound product.

Lastly, I am confident that, with my motivation and the experience I have gained from academic study and professional career, I can be a good candidate for your Master's Program. I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and diversity of your programme, and the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.

Yours sincerely,
Bejon Sarker