Dear Sir/Madam,

With this letter, I would like to express my interest in studying Master's in e-Governance Technologies at the Tallinn University of Technology.

One local body in my city collects tax from 1 million customers through manual mode and maintains individual registers for them. Enormous manpower requires and the chances of data errors and funds mismanagement are vast. In my opinion, if this was transformed into a web-based application with online payment mode and Citizen Portal, definitely would improve the efficiency and transparency. So, the adoption and the use of the e-government strategy can provide significant benefits for the government as this will reduce costs, improve service quality, and provide transparency. Furthermore, I believe, there are a lot more to improve in the field of governance by digitisation, especially for countries like Bangladesh. This realisation motivates me to study e-Governance Technologies and be one of the first few people who will work for making Bangladesh a tech-savvy nation.

In 2016, Japan has launched a digital identification program called MyNumber, which helps residents in accessing and managing numerous e-government services. I believe, Japan has taken Estonia as an example which is the vanguard of all states in using ICT in the public sector and governance. "Estonia’s success in converting their public services online is first and foremost based on the widespread use of electronic identification cards" according to June 2015, World bank report. This Baltic nation has developed X-Road to ensure secure communication between scattered government databases. Through e-ID and X-Road platform Estonia offers numerous convenient online services to their citizens including electronic tax filing, online medical prescriptions and, ultimately, internet voting. Residents who use the system save time and money. Moreover, it also provides direct communication between government and citizens which ensures transparency. The World Bank quantified the savings more precisely: the annual human-to-human queries were approximately 113 million in 2014. From all these data, it is clearly visible that government saving huge resources, and citizens are using e-government services more conveniently. It will be a great experience if I get a chance to study this programme in Estonia which has embraced e-Governance so effectively.

I have graduated from Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) in Computer Science and Engineering with obtaining 75% marks. After graduation, I joined in KONA Software Lab Limited, a banking solutions provider for public banks. I joined there because of my interest towards developing technical solutions for the public sector. "Kona Money", an NFC/QR code/barcode-based payment system, was my first professional project. This Host Card Emulation (HCE) mobile application is a prepaid payment system which is used as an alternative to physical debit/credit card. With these experiences, I am very interested researching in m-Government more specifically on m-ID. Estonia has already developed Mobile-ID. According to e-estonia.com, "the system is based on a specialised Mobile-ID SIM card which the customer must request from the mobile phone operator". I want to conduct a research project on Mobile-ID based on HCE technology where user credentials will be stored in a cloud server rather than in Secure element or SIM card. This will help getting rid of the third party like mobile phone operator. Furthermore, citizens will be able to use e-government services more conveniently through smartphones.

Lastly, I am confident that with my motivation and the experience, I can be a good candidate for your Master's Program. I will try my best to contribute to the excellence and diversity of your programme, and the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.

Yours sincerely,
Bejon Sarker