I had numerous questions in mind about the security of data transporting through networks. Until the 3rd year of my undergraduate study at BUET(Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology), almost all my questions remained unanswered. I found the answers to my questions by doing Data Communication and Computer Networks courses sincerely. With these courses, I had understood the layers of Networks and the underlying protocols to communicate, and all the basics of network security including cryptography, symmetric-key algorithms, public-key algorithms, digital signature, management of public keys, and authentication protocols. I was so fascinated by network security that I set my mind to be a security analyst.

During the final year of my study, I conducted a research project identifying the heterogeneous traffic behaviour of Dhaka city. I also developed a simulator which simulates traffic based on a given roadmap and vehicular behaviour. The goal of the research was to improve the present unpleasant condition of Dhaka traffic by finding the best combination of rule compliance, vehicular behaviour, and road condition. It was a great achievement developing the simulator which simulates such complex traffic containing heterogeneous vehicle and pedestrian.

After completing my B.Sc, although I had few other options, I joined Kona Software Lab Limited, a renown payment and security solution provider. Here, I was introduced with advanced cryptography, PKI, White Box Cryptography, fraud detection, and Hardware Security Module in first two months. After that, I was assigned to "Kona Money" project, an NFC/QR code/barcode-based payment system. I developed fraud detection module which detects deception in cryptogram and validates the transaction. Moreover, I designed and developed auth server for "Kona Local EMV". Upon successful authentication, Auth Server provides token that is used to grant access to resource servers.

All these experiences and academic basic courses related to security have provided me with a solid foundation to pursue a Masters Degree in Cyber Security. I found Cyber Security programme at Tallinn University of Technology unique as it is taught under high-level cyber security practitioners. In my opinion, studying under security practitioners will deliver deep insight into each topic and relation between theory and practice. This will take me one step closer to be a security analyst. Furthermore, the programme contains diverse courses. I found Malware, Malware 2, Information Systems Attacks and Defence, Simulation of Attacks and Defense, Cryptography 1, and Cryptography 2 courses particularly beneficial for my future plan. These courses will polish my understanding in advance cryptography and various types of attacks and defences. Therefore, with these courses, I wish to prepare myself to contribute to Estonia's flourishing software industry.

An impressive thesis will aid me entrancing the industry. So, I am extensively interested doing my thesis in identifying risks in mobile banking and providing authentication and fraud management methods for that. The use of mobile banking is rising across the globe for its simplicity and convenience, but current mobile banking authentication is challenging. I strongly believe, my desire for optimisation and practical experiences make me fit researching in this field.

Apart from my academic coursework in BUET, I was captain of my faculty cricket team and a volunteer of a blood donation organisation. These activities had helped me to develop my managerial skills, to work in a team under tight pressure, and overall to be a hardworking and self-motivated person.

Lastly, if the Tallinn University of Technology accepts me as a graduate student, I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and diversity of the programme, and the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.