Dear Sir/Madam,

With this letter, I would like to express my interest in studying Master's in Computer Science at the University of Tartu.

My journey in this area of computing started with "Introduction to Computer System" and "Structured Programming Language" courses where I wrote my first "hello world" code in C. It was my first taste of success in practical programming. However, an aspiration for higher study and successful career had persisted in my mind from a very young age. I was fascinated with computers because of video games. But one question popped up in my mind over and over: how could I control elements on the monitor by pressing the keyboard or clicking the mouse! When I asked my older brother this question, he answered, "You have to study computer science to understand this". That simple statement amplified my fascination for computers into a passion which exists to this day.

After completing my higher secondary education, I enrolled myself in the B.Sc programme in Computer Science and Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET), the most renown university in Bangladesh. My attraction towards computers was not the only driving force, interest towards Mathematics also pushed me to choose Computer Science. I studied elementary Computer Science courses at BUET and graduated with 75% marks. Among all these, Algorithm course helped me visualise Mathematics in a simpler way. I enjoyed the subject so much that, after learning each Algorithm I always tried to generate my own simpler version of it. I had become familiar with programming languages C, C++, JAVA, scripting languages like HTML, PHP, shell, and databases like Oracle and MySQL before my senior year.

During the final year of my undergraduate study, I conducted a research project identifying the heterogeneous traffic behaviour of Dhaka city. I also developed a simulator which simulates traffic based on a given roadmap and vehicular behaviour. The goal of my research was to improve the present unpleasant condition of Dhaka traffic by finding the best combination of rule compliance, vehicular behaviour, and road condition. I used JAVA (with NetBeans IDE), QGis for processing Open Street Map and shape files, and SQLite. I built a Map Parser as well to improve performance. It was a great achievement developing the simulator which could simulate such complex traffic containing heterogeneous vehicle and pedestrian. I have provided the Github link of our simulator.

After graduating from BUET in March 2016, I joined KONA Software Lab Limited. "Kona Money", an NFC/QR code/barcode-based payment system, was my first professional project. I got a chance to master my skills in JAVA, Spring, Hibernate, Application Server, IntelliJ IDEA IDE, Gradle, and GIT by working in this project. While working in "Kona Money”, my team leader found that I was eager to improve performance by applying cutting-edge technologies and optimal algorithms. So, he gave me a challenging task: design and develop Auth Server for the "Kona Local EMV" project. Upon successful authentication, Auth Server provides token that is used to grant access to resource servers. JAVA with Spring boot, Oauth2, JWT (JSON Web Token), Zuul proxy, and oracle database are used to develop the system. Currently, I am working on the "KOD" project. We are using AngularJS, JAVA(Spring), and Oracle database to develop it.

All these experiences and academic basic courses have provided me with a solid foundation to pursue a Masters Degree in Computer Science and made me confident to follow my dream. I dream to be an entrepreneur. I firmly believe the diversity of this programme is the best match for my future plan.  The programme contains courses like Advanced Algorithmics, Discrete Mathematics and  Distributed Systems with which I want to hone my theoretical knowledge. Moreover, I will have a chance to brush up my professional practice by undertaking an entrepreneurial project which I found pertinent to my future plan. In my opinion, this entrepreneurial project will build the foundation for my long-term goal.

I am extensively passionate about Programming Languages. I strongly believe, knowledge gained from courses like Formal Methods in Software Engineering, Concurrent Programming Languages, and Parallel Computing will guide me in designing and developing real word large scalable solutions. Moreover, this module will enhance my development skill which is exceedingly beneficial to my career.

An impressive thesis will aid me entrancing the industry. So, I want to do my thesis on parallel computing. All the DBMS operations, Google searches, and other millions of transactions operate within a single second because of parallel computing. So, parallel computing is a must to design scalable system.

Apart from my academic coursework, I was the captain of my faculty cricket team and a volunteer of "Badhan", a blood donation organisation. Moreover, I like adventurous travelling like trekking. I also participated many programming and robotics contests. My team won the 4th prize in Inter University Coding Contest, 2014. All these activities had helped me to develop my managerial skills, to become a team player, and overall to be a hardworking and self-motivated person.

Lastly, I am confident that with my motivation and the experience I have gained from academic study and professional career, I can be a good candidate for your Master's Program. I will try my best to contribute strongly to the excellence and diversity of your programme and the international community of the University.

Thank you for your consideration. I am looking forward to your reply.

Yours sincerely,
Bejon Sarker